doc: add auto remount volume page (#874)
longhorn/website: content/docs/1.5.4/high-availability/auto-remount-volume-by-deleting-workload-pod.md

---
title: Auto Remount Volume By Deleting Workload Pod
weight: 1
---

When the following situations occur, Longhorn automatically attempts to delete workload pods that are managed by a controller (for example, Deployment, StatefulSet, or DaemonSet). After deletion, the controller restarts the workload pod and Kubernetes handles volume reattachment and remounting.

> 1. A volume was unexpectedly detached, possibly because of a [Kubernetes upgrade](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/703), [Docker reboot](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/686), network connectivity issue, or volume engine crash.

Reviewer: Probably replace "Docker reboot" with "container runtime" for making it generalized?

Author: Fixed.

2. A volume was automatically salvaged after all replicas became faulty, possibly because of a network connectivity issue. Longhorn attempts to identify the usable replicas and uses them for the volume.

> 3. An error occurred on a Share Manager pod that uses an RWX volume.

Reviewer 2: Item 3 is incorrect. Consumer workloads should not be deleted when a share manager pod encounters an error and is subsequently restarted.

https://longhorn.io/docs/1.6.0/references/settings/#automatically-delete-workload-pod-when-the-volume-is-detached-unexpectedly

Author: We do delete the user workload pod when the share-manager pod encounters an error and restarted
Here is the code, and I have tested it before, it did kill and restart the user pod.
https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn-manager/blob/edf23eddc3b6c307031eaa770c3d312c963f25a5/controller/volume_controller.go#L4153-L4161

cc @ejweber @shuo-wu

Reviewer 2: @derekbit @james-munson  does this mean share manager failover only takes effect when users disable `auto-delete-pod-when-volume-detached-unexpectedly`?? If it's enabled (default), the consumer workloads are always deleted to restart when the share manager pod is stopped somehow.

If yes, should we consider a different handling for RWX to make the failover happen w/o interrupting the consumer workloads by default w/o disabling the global setting?

Reviewer 3: @james-munson James mentioned that there is a long history for this part. It seems that we disallowed then re-allowed setting `auto-delete-pod-when-volume-detached-unexpectedly` to handle RWX volumes. But I don't know why...
Currently, Yes, once the setting is enabled, `workloads are always deleted to restart when the share manager pod is stopped somehow`

If you want to prevent Longhorn from automatically deleting workload pods, disable the setting [*Automatically Delete Workload Pod when The Volume Is Detached Unexpectedly*](../../references/settings#automatically-delete-workload-pod-when-the-volume-is-detached-unexpectedly) on the Longhorn UI.
Longhorn does not delete pods without a controller because such pods cannot be restarted after deletion. To recover volumes that are unexpectedly detached, you must manually delete and restart the pods without a controller.

> Besides the above situations, the state of a volume can change to read-only when IO errors occur. In this case, Longhorn automatically attempts to remount the global mount point on the host to change the state back to read-write. Please refer to [Recover Volume When It Becomes Read Only](../recover-volume-when-read-only)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In connection with the listed situations, the state of a volume can change to read-only when IO errors occur. In this case, Longhorn automatically attempts to remount the global mount point on the host to change the state back to read-write. For more information, see [Recover Volume When It Becomes Read Only](../recover-volume-when-read-only).
```
